Wizardry is offered with the expectation that
those who use it will take and answer to the
Wizard's Oath in their own conscience.

To take the Oath, recite it aloud.

Beware: Taking the Wizard's Oath for the first
time will begin your Ordeal.

~ THE WIZARD'S OATH ~

In Life's name and for Life's sake, I say
that I will use the Art for nothing but the
service of that Life. I will guard growth
and ease pain. I will fight to preserve what
grows and lives well in its own way; and I
will change no object or creature unless its
growth and life, or that of the system of
which it is part, are threatened. To these
ends, in the practice of my Art, I will put
aside fear for courage, and death for life,
when it is right to do so -- till Universe's
end. I will look always toward the Heart of
Time, where all times are one, where all our
sundered worlds lie whole, as they were meant
to be.

-Diane Duane, Young Wizards book series

~ THE WIZARD'S OATH (FOR CAT WIZARDS) ~

I will meet the cruel and the cowardly today,
liars and the envious, the uncaring and
unknowing: they will be all around. But their
numbers and their carelessness do not mean I
have to be like them. For my own part, I know
my job; my commission comes from Those Who
Are. My paw raised is Their paw on the neck of
the Serpent, now and always. I shall walk
through Their worlds as do the Powers that Be,
seeing and knowing with Them and for Them,
tending Their worlds as if they were mine:
for so indeed they are. Silently shall I
strive to go my way, as They do, doing my work
unseen; the light needs no reminding by me of
good deeds done by night. And in this long
progress through all that is, though I will
know doubt and fear in the strange places
where I must walk, I will put these both
aside, as the Oath requires, and hold myself
to my work ... for if They and I together
cannot mend what is marred, who can? And
having done my work aright, though I may know
weariness at day's end, come awakening I
shall rise up and say again, with Them, as if
surprised, "behold, the world is made new ...
!"

-Diane Duane, Feline Wizards series

~ THE WIZARD'S OATH EXPLAINED ~

The main point of the Wizard's Oath is a
conscious opposition to entropy.

You may take an alternative version of the
Wizard's Oath that you write yourself.
